I mentioned earlier that creating a test framework is a front‑loaded cost,
meaning that there is a lot more work up front.
And I'm going to warn you that that's about what we're going to go through.
The first couple of classes we have to make take a lot of
work for what seems like very little return.
Except as we start to develop more tests, you'll see that pay off very rapidly.
To begin with,
I'm in our Tests project where we're going to actually create our test.
I want to create a new unit test.
So I'm going to go to src, test, java, and right‑click and say New, Java Class.
And I am going to type in here com.pluralsight.UnitTest and click Enter.
We could honestly give this a more meaningful name than this particular test,
but it's going to work for the example that we're going through now.
To signify a test, we're going to use the @Test annotation.
And then below this, we're going to enter in public void canGoToHomePage.
And we're going to reference a class that we have not created yet in here.
We're going to say Pages.homePage.goTo, and we have not created this yet.
I'll say Assertions.assertTrue Pages.homePage.isAt, and let's save this.
Now, we have not created the Pages class yet.
We don't have a method named homePage yet,
and we haven't created the functionality to go to that home page.
We're going to switch over to our TestFramework project
and start creating this functionality.
In our TestFramework project,
I'm going to minimize that side tray and get rid of our build window as
well and just start focusing on writing some code.
To do so, I'm going to expand our test framework and navigate down to src,
main, java, and begin by creating a new Java class.
That's going to be under com.pluralsight.Pages.
Inside of here, we're going to create a method.
I'm going to call this public static HomePage.
So it's going to return an instance of the HomePage class,
and the method is going to be called homePage.
And we'll say HomePage homePage = new HomePage,
and we'll return that instance of homePage.
Now, we can create that class as well.
And if we hover over the red instance of HomePage,
it'll ask us if we want to create that.
Let's say yes.
We want the destination package to be com.pluralsight,
so I'll put it underneath that directory and click OK.
And inside of here, we know we need that method of goTo,
and we can define that by saying public void goTo.
And we're going to reference another class that we
have not created yet called Browser.
We'll say Browser.goTo.
Let's pass in a reference to a URL.
Now, as we mentioned, we're going to have this navigate our site for us.
So this is going to build things around the site we're trying to test.
It really wants to import a browser object for us.
Nope,
we're not going to do that because we're going to
create our own for referencing our site.
Let's begin by putting in the URL that we want this to go to.
So we'll say static String URL is equal to http://www.pluralsight.com.
Now you'll start to notice we're gleaning some of the pieces out of our
application that we had hardcoded in our previous tests.
Now if we hover over this, it wants to resolve this to Browser.
We can look at the more actions and say no,
we want to create a class called Browser.
And the same thing, the destination package is com.pluralsight,
so we'll click OK.
And inside of here,
we can say that we want static WebDriver driver = new ChromeDriver.
And our goTo method, we will say public static void goTo String url,
and this is going to say driver.get url,
so the URL that we're passing in.
So kind of a wrapper class that we're going to put around those other
methods and functionality that we're passing into it here.
While we're in the Browser class, let's add two other methods inside of here.
We'll say public static String title,
and we're going to say return driver.getTitle.
And we're going to use this for the assertion that we have inside of our unit
test and inside of the HomePage class that we're riding.
We'll do one other feature here.
We'll say public static void close, and we'll say driver.close.
And that's just to clean up our resources and be a
good steward of our code base.
Now going back over to our HomePage,
it's now resolved our browser that it was complaining about,
but we don't have the isAt functionality that we had
called from our unit test done yet.
Remember, if we switch back over to our other test project,
we have this Pages.homePage.isAt.
So let's go create that isAt functionality.
And to do so, we'll say public boolean isAt,
and we'll return Browser.title.equals, and we'll pass in a title string.
We haven't created this object yet.
So much like the URL, we're going to say static String title is equal to,
and if we go out to the Pluralsight website and grab the
title off that page in our browser, we can paste that inside of here.
Navigating to the website and viewing the source,
we can see here that the title tag contains Pluralsight:
The tech workforce development company.
So I've gone ahead and grabbed that.
And let's switch back over to our IDE,
and we can paste that inside of our title tag.
So let's save that.
We should now have all of the pieces that we need.
We're going to our Pages, which resolves our HomePage.
Our HomePage asks for our Browser and the goTo and isAt
from it and then our Browser itself.
Let's look at our Pages class and see if there's
anything else we need to add here, and everything looks good.
Let's expand that Maven tray again and run install.
This will build our framework and install it in our local repository.
And switching over to our test project,
it should now resolve those errors inside of our unit test.
If we refresh this, you can see that the errors go away, and
we're ready to actually run that test.
So that was the enabling of auto imports that we had
when we first set up our project.
All of our errors are now resolved.
We can run our tests the exact same way we were running our other methods,
and that is to right‑click and say Run canGoToHomePage.
This will fire up our test framework and run through,
and you can see our test passed.
You should also see a browser window pop up, just like you
have been running all of your tests,
but notice that our test went through and successfully completed.
If yours didn't for some reason,
make sure you've got your title and the URL in there correctly,
and it is case‑sensitive on that equal statement so make sure you
haven't manually typed something in incorrectly there.
But let's walk through the code that we just created.
So this was our unit test.
Pretty straightforward, Pages.homePage.goTo.
And to walk through this, this is the page object model.
We're saying in the Pages object, we want to go to the HomePage.
And from the HomePage, we want to actually navigate to it.
And then we're going to use an assertion to say are we
actually at where we think we're at?
In our framework where we really did most of the work,
let's close our Maven tray here and minimize this, we created a
Pages object, and the Pages object said, hey,
let's go to the HomePage.
We created a HomePage object, which then utilized our browser to say,
well, the URL to this page is pluralsight.com, and this is the title
of this page. And if we're going to navigate to it,
we want to go to that URL. From here,
we can also test to say that we are at this page, and then we created a
browser object to encapsulate or wrap our WebDriver to do this.
This all worked in conjunction to navigate through. And you can see
that our other project had no references to Selenium.
In fact, even our framework itself wrapped a lot of that up.
Let's continue to keep building upon this,
but you're starting to see the power of having this here as we have
other pages inside of here, like if we had an about page or contact page
or those types of things. You'll create more objects very similar to
that HomePage object and put the URL, title, other properties inside of
there listed in this object.
Now you don't have to hardcode these in here too.
You can load these through a properties file,
pull them out of a database, but we're showing you how to set up the framework and get that up and running.